# About this project
Movielens(https://movielens.org) is a non-commercial, movie recommendation website maintained 
by GroupLens lab, University of Minnestoa.

Movielens launched four algorithms to recommendend movie trailers on DATE.

In this analysis, we explore trailer usage on Movielens, and evaluate the four algorithms that 
make trailer recommendations. 

We also published a paper based on our analysis. Our paper showcases the performance of our algorithms, 
discusses the implication of our results, and proposes possible future works. 
The paper is published on ACM RecSys: https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3240395. It can be found in the paper folder. 

# Data Preparation
Files in this directory reads from raw data and generate dataset necessary for other analysis, and save them in the Clean_Data directory. 

# Summary statistics
    1 - Trailer Info Summary Statistics: summary of information about the trailers, such as 
    distributions of popularity, avgRating, age of all trailers, grouped by algorithms.
    
    2 - Interactions with Trailers Summary Statistics: statistics of how users interact with trailers, 
    such as number of users who've viewed a trailer; percentages of a trailer people tend to watch; 
    actions such as PlayedFromRecommendation; TrailerEnded; MovieDetailsModalOpened; WishlistedMovie; etc.
    
    3 - Clicks on each position: statistics about the positions of trailers that users clicked on
    
# Evaluating algorithms
    2 - Trailer Likes among Recommendations: compare how often users like the trailers generated by 
    different algorithms
    
    3 - Interactions - Liked, Wishlisted, Played, Percent Watched: compare how often users interact with 
    (Liked, Wishlisted, Played, Percent Watched) trailers generated by different algorithms
    
    4 - Stats of Recommendations by each Algorithm: information about the trailers generated by different algorithms
    
# Statistical test
    We ran a few mixed-effect models to test if differences in performance of the algorithms are 
    statistically significant. 

# Paper
    recsys2018-submitted-version contains the draft we submitted in May, 2018.
    recsys2018-camera-ready-version contains the version we published in October, 2018.
    
